Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at AWS WAF,
or web application firewall.
So WAF is a web application firewall
that allows you to monitor the HTTP and HTTPS requests
that are forwarded to Amazon CloudFront,
an application load balancer, or API Gateway.
And essentially it allows you to control access
to your content.
So with HTTP and HTTPS that's happening
at the application layer.
Sometimes this is referred to as layer seven
in the OSI model.
So a web application firewall
is a layer seven aware firewall.
And it can see things like query string parameters.
It can see the actual information that you're sending
to your web servers.
So you might be wondering what a query string parameter is?
This is a good example of one.
You see them all the time when you use the internet.
So you've got your web address in here,
and it ends with your top-level domain name,
then you've got this question mark,
and then you have some variables.
And this is what's called a query string parameter.
It's passing variables back to your web server.
So this variable is called id and it's equal to 1001.
This variable is the name and it's equal to ryan.
So your web application firewall can actually
see down into the layer seven
of this query string parameter,
whereas a physical hardware file would only be able to go
up to layer four.
So web application firewalls are a lot more secure.
They can see a lot more information than a typical firewall.
So you can configure conditions, such as what IP addresses
are allowed to make this request,
or what query string parameters need to be passed
for the request to be allowed.
And then the application load balancer, or CloudFront,
or API Gateway will either allow this content
to be received, or give a HTTP 403 status code.
So at its most basic level, AWS WAF
allows three different types of behavior.
Behavior number one, allow all requests
except the ones that you specify.
Behavior number two, block all requests
except the ones that you specify.
Or number three is sort of a passive mode,
which is just where it's going to count the requests
that match the properties that you specify.
So in terms of the extra protection that WAF provides,
it protects against web attacks
using conditions that you specify.
And you can define conditions by using characteristics
of web requests such as, the IP address
that it originates from,
the country that requests originate from,
and that's a really, really popular exam question.
You might have an embargo against some country
and you need to block their access to your website.
How do you do this?
Well using AWS WAF is definitely one of the correct answers.
Values in request headers.
Strings that appear in requests.
Either specific strings,
or strings that match regular expressions.
The lengths of the request.
And then WAF can also detect things like SQL code
that is likely to be malicious.
So this will be things like SQL injections.
As well as the presence of a script
that is likely to be malicious.
This is sometimes known as cross-site scripting.
So on to my exams tips.
Just remember that you're gonna be given
a whole buncha different scenarios
and you'll be asked to block,
how to block malicious IP addresses, or perhaps
how to prevent against SQL attacks, or SQL injections,
or cross-site scripting, or block individual countries,
well you wanna use AWS WAF.
You can also use network ACLs
to block malicious IP addresses.
And we're gonna cover this off in more detail
in the VPC section of the course.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.