Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to talk
about EC2 Placement Groups.
So congratulations,
you're almost at the end of the EC2 section of the course.
You've done really,
really well.
Hopefully, you've learned an awful lot
and had an awful lot of fun.
In this one,
it's just a pure theoretical lecture,
EC2 Placement Groups do come up on the exam.
There used to be only one type of placement group,
and that used to be very popular exam topic.
Now, there's three different two types of placement groups,
and you will need to understand what they are going
into your exam and the differences between the three.
So what is a placement group or an EC2 Placement Group?
Well, it's pretty obvious from the name actually,
it's just a way of placing your EC2 instances.
And there's three different types of placement groups.
So we have our clustered placement groups,
our spread placement groups,
and then our partitioned placement group.
And we'll go through each one individually.
We'll start off with the easiest.
So clustered placement groups is basically a grouping
of instances within a single availability zone.
Placement groups are recommended for applications
that need low network latency,
high network throughput or both.
So essentially,
it's a way of putting your EC2 instances very,
very close to each other
so that you have very low network latency.
And you can also have very,
very high network throughput.
So that's all it is.
It's a way of grouping your EC2 instances very,
very close together within a single availability zone.
And only certain instances can be launched
into a clustered placement group.
We then have our spread placement group
and this is basically the opposite idea.
So it's a group of instances
that are each placed on distinct underlying hardware.
These will be on separate racks with separate network inputs
as well as a separate power requirements.
So if you have one rack that fails,
it's only gonna affect that one EC2 instance.
So spread placement groups are recommended for applications
that have small number of critical instances
that should be kept separate from each other.
And you can have spread placement groups,
inside different availability zones within one region.
And with a spread placement group,
I want you to think of individual instances.
So this individual EC2 instance is
on this individual piece of hardware.
And it's completely isolated
from this individual EC2 instance,
and this one et cetera.
So if a rack does go through and fail,
it's only going to affect the one instance.
So that's all a spread placement group is,
it's the sort of opposite of a clustered placement group,
in that, you know,
clustered placement group puts all your EC2 instances very,
very close together,
so you get really high performing network throughput
as well as low latency,
whereas spread placement groups are designed
to protect your EC2 instances from hardware failure,
but its individual instances put
on individual racks inside either the same availability zone
or different availability zones depending
on how you configure it.
We then have partition placement groups which are very,
very similar to spread placement groups,
except you can have multiple EC2 instances
within a partition.
So when using partition placement groups,
Amazon EC2 divides each group
into logical segments called partitions,
and Amazon EC2 ensures
that each partition within a placement group
is on its own set of racks.
And each rack has its own network and power source,
and no two partitions within the placement groups
share the same racks,
allowing you to isolate the impact
of hardware failure within your application.
So if you go through and read the documentation,
it does take a little while get your head around
the difference between a spread placement group
and a partition placement group.
And basically the difference is,
is you can have multiple instances
in a partitioned placement group.
So you can have multiple instances on this rack
and you can have multiple instances on this rack,
and this rack is completely separate to this rack.
So EC2 instances are basically sitting on partition one
and then you've got a whole bunch
of EC2 instances sitting on partition two.
That's a partitioned placement group.
But if you dealing with individual EC2 instances,
then that's a spread placement group.
So a spread placement group is for single instance,
partition placement groups are for multiple instances,
and then your clustered placement groups are just a way
of putting everything as close together as possible.
So onto my exam tips,
just remember the three different types of placement groups.
So we've got our clustered placement groups,
our spread placement groups,
and our partition placement groups.
So what is the use case for a clustered placement group?
Well it's for low network latency
and high network throughput.
So you want your EC2 instances to be as close
to each other as possible,
they'll always be in the same availability zone
in the same region.
Our spread placement group is where we've got individual,
critical EC2 instances,
and we need them to be on separate pieces of hardware.
So if one piece of hardware fails,
it's going to isolate that EC2 instance,
it's not going to knock out two EC2 instances at once,
it's only gonna be that one EC2 instance.
So that's all a spread placement group is
and then partitioned is for multiple EC2 instances.
So use cases for this could be HDFS,
HBase and Cassandra clusters.
So partitioned is basically just multiple EC2 instances,
whereas spread is individual critical EC2 instances.
A clustered placement group can't span multiple
availability zones,
whereas a spread placement
and partitioned placement group can,
but they still have to be within the same region.
The name that you specify
for a placement group must be unique
within your AWS account.
Only certain types of instances can be launched
in placement groups.
So these are things like compute optimized GPU,
memory optimized and storage optimized as well.
AWS recommend homogenous instances,
within clustered placement groups.
So if you are doing a clustered placement group,
you want to have the same EC2 instance types inside
that clustered placement group or at least
that's Amazon's recommendation.
You can't merge placement groups
and you can move an existing instance
into a placement group,
but before you move the instance,
the instance must be in the stop state.
And you can move or remove an instance using the AWS-CLI
or SDK, but you can't do it via the console just yet.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
We're almost at the end of the course.
In the next lecture we're just gonna have a quick look
at Amazon's web application firewall or WAF,
and then we're gonna summarize everything
that we've learned in this section of the course.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.