Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at instance metadata.
So, in the last lecture we looked at bootstrap scripts,
and we passed it some user data.
We can actually go into our EC2 instance,
and look at this user data as well as instance metadata.
So, what I want you to do
is to SSH into your EC2 instance.
Okay, so I'm in my EC2 instance.
I've elevated my privileges to root.
I'm just going to clear the screen,
so it looks clean.
And then what I want to do is I'm going to run
the "curl" command, and then I'm going to do it
to this IP address.
So, we're going to go to 169.254.
.169.254.
Then forward slash "latest", and then forward slash,
and then we'll do "user-data".
And there you go, you can actually see
our bootstrap script.
It's all these lines here.
So this is what we passed to it, when it first booted up.
And if you hit "up" again, and go all the way
to the end of the command, then we can output
this to "bootstrap.txt".
And if we type now "cat bootstrap.txt",
we'll be able to see that we've created
a file called "bootstrap.txt",
and we've passed our bootstrap script that was
saved in our user data, to bootstrap.txt.
And you can actually see the file in there.
So, let's clear the screen.
So, that's a way of passing our bootstrap script
to our EC2 instance, and then having
our EC2 instance remember it.
You can use the curl command to do that.
Another thing we can use the curl command,
is to get the data on our individual EC2 instance.
So, again, we're going to go to "http",
and we're going to go to 169
.254.169
.254.
And then forward slash "latest"
and then this time instead of saying "user-data",
we want to see "meta-data".
And then forward slash.
And it'll give you a whole bunch of different options.
So, let's say we wanted to get our IPv4.
If we hit the "up" button again,
and we go all the way to the end,
and then now just type "local" and then hyphen,
and then "ipv4".
And you can see my local IP address there.
So, it's my 172.31.22
.213.
I can also do it for my public IP.
So, instead of saying "local" IP,
we want "public" and then hyphen "ipv4".
And there you go, there's my public IP address.
And likewise, I can output this data into a text file.
So, I could call it "myip.txt",
".txt".
And if we now do "ls", we can see
that we've got "myip.txt".
If I "cat" that, so my "myip.txt",
I'll be able to see the IP address in there.
And what I could do is
have a bootstrap script that runs this,
gets the public IP, writes it to a file,
then automatically copies it over to S3.
That could then trigger a lambda function,
and I know we haven't covered off lambda yet,
but we'll get to that in a few sections of the course.
And then you could basically store that IP address
in a database.
So you could write it directly to a database
from your EC2 instance.
So, there's lots of things you can do
using the curl command, and lots of data
that you can get.
And just to see it all, all you need to do
is just type in "curl", and then go "curl hcv 169
.254 169.254
forward slash "meta-data", and then just hit "Enter",
and you'll be able to see all the various
different options there.
So, what are my exam tips?
Just remember, that metadata is used
to get information about an instance,
such as its public IP.
And you can do that by running this command.
So "curl http 169.254
"169.254"
forward slash "latest", forward slash "meta-data".
And then you can also get your user data,
and your user data will simply contain
the bootstrap script that you ran,
and that's what's passed to it,
when it is first provisioned.
And you can get that running the curl command.
So "169 254 169
"254", forward slash 'latest",
forward slash "user-data".
So, that is it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture, thank you.