Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at EFS.
So what is EFS?
Well EFS stands for Elastic File System
and it's a file storage service
for Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud or EC2 instances.
So it's similar to EBS, except where you've got EBS,
you can only mount your virtual disk to one EC2 instance
and that's just the way it works.
You cannot have an EC2 instance, two EC2 instances
sharing an EBS volume.
However, you can have them sharing an EFS volume.
So EFS is an easy way to use and provide a simple interface
that allows you to create and configure file systems
quickly and easily and with the EFS, storage capacity
is elastic, growing and shrinking automatically
as you add and remove files so your applications have
the storage they need when they need it.
So it is actually really cool.
Basically if you provision an EFS instance,
it will just grow automatically so you could put like
one terabyte file on there and then add another terabyte,
you don't need to pre-provision storage
like you do with EBS.
So EFS is a way, it's great for basically file servers,
it's a great way to share files
between different EC2 instances.
So as always, the best way to learn EFS is to go in
and start using it.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna create
two little EC2 instances,
we're gonna run a bootstrap script on them
to install some tools as well as Apache
and then what we're gonna do is we're going to go
and mount this, our var dub-dub-dub HTML directory
to an EFS mount point and then that way,
we only need one copy of our website or our website
will be stored on EFS and when we go and update
or make changes to it, we're just that those changes
are replicated automatically across all our EC2 instances.
So if you've got the time, please join me
in the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Management Console
and currently in the London region.
Let's go ahead and provision our EFS clusters,
you'll find EFS under storage and we're gonna go in
and provision our EFS file system.
So let's go ahead and create our file system.
In here, we can see the three different availability zones
it's going to be spread across, it is gonna go
into our default security group within our default VPC
and you will need to remember that for a bit later.
Let's go ahead and hit Next and in here,
we can add in our tags, we don't need to add any in there.
This is quite new, enable lifecycle management.
So just like how we have lifecycle policies on S3,
we also have this with EFS and essentially,
you've got different policies in here.
So if your files haven't been access in the last 14 days
or 30 days or 60 days or et cetera, et cetera,
it will automatically move them over to EFS
infrequently access storage class, which is cheaper.
I'm not gonna do that because we're gonna delete
this almost straight away.
In here we've got our throughput mode,
we can just use bursting,
we don't need provision throughput, same with performance,
it's just gonna be a single web page
that we're putting on here.
So we're gonna do general purpose and not max I/O.
And I am gonna enable encryption of my data
and I'm just going to use this KMS master key,
it's gonna make one for me called Elastic File System.
Let's go ahead and hit Next and we'll go ahead
and hit Create File System.
So that can take about four or five minutes to go in
and create your file system, you will see it in here
that it's the mount target state is creating.
This will change to available in about four or five minutes.
Let's go over to our EC2 instances, I'm gonna go in
and provision our EC2 instances, so let's go ahead
and launch our instances.
We're gonna do an Amazon Linux 2 AMI, gonna do a t2micro
and I'm going to change the number of instances
in here to two.
And then I'm gonna give it this bootstrap script.
So this is the bootstrap script in here.
Essentially what we're doing is running a yum update,
we're installing Apache, we're starting the Apache service,
we're making sure Apache comes back on if
our EC2 instance restarts and then we're installing
the Amazon EFS utils tool and that will allow us
to mount it a bit later to, our file system
to our EC2 instances.
So grab that, copy it into your clipboard
and then just paste it in here.
And then we'll go ahead and hit Next to add our storage,
I'm gonna leave everything else as default,
I'm going to drop this into my web DMZ security group
and then we're gonna go ahead and launch it
and make sure you have access to your key pair
because you will need to SSH into these EC2 instances.
They're now launching.
While we're waiting for those to launch,
let's go over to our security group.
So if you remember, we provisioned our EFS file system
into our default security group.
And EFS is going to or our web servers
are going to communicate to our file system
using the NFS protocol.
So we actually need to open this up
on our inbound firewall rules.
So let's go in here and hit edit and you can see
I've actually already got this one in but we may as well
just add it in manually.
So you just click in here, scroll down to NFS
and then it's on port 2049 and to do that,
you just type in SG and then select your web DMZ
and go ahead and hit save and then you should be able
to see that you've got your NFS firewall rule in here.
So it's allowing NFS protocol
into our default security group from our web servers.
And if you don't do this, the lab isn't gonna work
so don't forget to do this.
Let's go back over to our EFS and see if it's up online
to our Elastic File System.
See in here that my mount target states
are now all available, so it is good to go.
Before we go in and mount this, let's go and open up.
Let's go over to EC2 and we wanna grab
the public IP addresses of our two running instances.
So I'm going to select this one first,
I'm gonna copy this into my clipboard.
I'm gonna type SSH EC2 and then hyphen user and then at
and then paste my public IP in there and then it's called
my London key pair and just gonna hit yes
and then I'm gonna elevate my privileges to root,
gonna clear the screen.
Let's go over to our var dub-dub-dub HTML directory
and just make sure it exists.
If it exists, that means that Apache has been installed,
so we're all good to go.
Then you just need to go back a directory,
so go back to your dub-dub-dub directory
and go ahead and clear the screen.
Let's grab our second IP address.
So the second one is this one here and we're gonna do
exactly the same steps, so just copy this
into our clipboard, go back over and then need to go back
over to my other tab and then in here,
I'm going to type in SSH EC2 and then hyphen user
and then at and then enter in my public IP address minus i
and then it's my London key pair.
Again, type yes, elevate your privileges to root
so sudo su, let's clear the screen just to make it easier
to see, then we're gonna go over to our cd var dub-dub-dub
and then HTML directory, make sure Apache is installed
which it is and then go back a directory,
it's very important that you always go back a directory
to our dub-dub-dub.
So we've got our two tabs open, both in our dub-dub-dub
and we've got separate internal IP addresses.
Let's go back over to our browser and we're gonna go back
over to EFS and we're going to mount our Elastic File System
to our EC2 instances.
Amazon make this very easy for us, all we need to do
is scroll down to here and click
on the mount instructions from a local VPC.
That will then give us the command.
We've already ran this command in the bootstrap scripts,
that has already been done.
And then what we need to do is go down here,
there's two different commands here using the mount helper.
This one will do it and it means that there will be
no encryption in transit.
We don't want that, we wanna make sure our files
are encrypted in transit because we've also got encryption
at rest turned on.
So we'll wanna use the TLS command in here.
You won't need sudo 'cause we're already at root,
so just copy that into your clipboard, go back over
to your browser and click on one of the tabs.
gonna paste it in here but we don't want it to go
to the EFS directory, we want it to go
to our var dub-dub-dub and then HTML directory, so HTML.
And then when you hit enter, you can take
like a few seconds, if it hangs for more than a minute,
it means your security groups aren't working.
That's typically what it is.
Again, I'm gonna paste the same tab, the same command
into the other tab and we're gonna change it
to my var dub-dub-dub and then HTML directory.
And then in here, I'm gonna type ls,
so I can see my HTML directory, then go into it
and then type ls, there's nothing in there.
So let's create a file.
So we're gonna do echo, I'm gonna make a little web page
so HTML and then do our body and we'll do a header
and we'll say, Hello EFS Gurus.
And then I'm going to end my header and the body
and then we're going to end the HTML.
So end HTML, close out our quotations
and then we're going to output this
to our index, then .html.
And then if we type in ls, that's created the file,
if we type cat index.html, you can see the contents
of the file in there.
We go back over to our other tab, type in ls,
we can see our HTML directory, if we go
into the HTML directory and type ls, we can see index.html.
If we cat it index.html,
you can see the contents of the file.
Now we can go in on this EC2 instance
and we could change the file.
So we could go nano index.html and then instead
of saying Hello EFS Gurus, we ended Keep Being Awesome
Cloud Gurus and then I'm just gonna hit Control + X, yes
and then hit enter.
I'm gonna change my tab over to my other EC2 instance
and if I do cat index.html, you can see that
they're all reading from the same file so it's all
on the same file system.
So you make a change on one, that change is automatically,
replicated out to our other web servers.
You can go and visit the website we just created
by going to the public IP address
and you can check it out there, I'm not going to.
What we are gonna do is, it can take a while to delete
your file systems in EFS so I'm gonna go in
and just terminate the EC2 instances first.
So we'll just do that by going up here, Actions,
Instance State and then we'll go over and hit Terminate
and hit Yes, Terminate and then we'll go over to EFS
and then we're gonna go into this EFS, Elastic File System
and to delete the file system, you just grab the name
of the file system in here, copy it into your clipboard
and then paste it in here and it says
it's a destructive action that cannot be undone
so let's be destructive in our AWS environment.
So that is it, it's really really simple.
EFS is a way of having common file systems
or storage using NFS between your different EC2 instances,
very easy to set up and get going and then you don't need
to worry about syncing files between your EC2 instances
'cause they're all on the same file system.
So let's go and have a look at my exam tips.
So what are my exam tips?
Well, EFS supports the Network File System version four
or NFSv4 protocol.
With the EFS you only pay for the storage that you use,
there's no pre-provisioning required, it's not like EBS
where we have to say, hey, I want an eight gig EBS volume,
we basically just pay as we go.
It can scale up to the petabytes
and it can support thousands of concurrent NFS connections.
And then data is stored across multiple availability zones
within a region.
And in terms of the consistency model,
it's always read after write consistency.
So you're getting towards the end of this section
of the course, in the next lecture,
we're going to look at FSx for Windows and FSx for Lustre,
we're then going to move on to EC2 placement groups,
then look at web application firewalls and then finally,
we will move on to the summary
of this section of the course.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.