[Ryan] Okay, hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture is on ElastiCache
and this is the last database service we need to cover
in this section of the course
before we move on to our summary
and then we can move on and learn all about
Route 53 and networking.
So, what is ElastiCache?
And we did cover this off in the database 101 lecture.
But basically it's a web service that makes it easy
to deploy, operate and scale in-memory caching in the cloud
and the service improves the performance of web applications
by allowing you to retrieve information from fast managed
in-memory caches instead of relying
on slower disk-based databases.
So what does that actually mean?
Well, essentially if you go to
let's say Amazon.com and you've got
you go into, I don't know, the technology department
and you see the ten top most purchased items.
What essentially is happening there is the EC2 instances.
They aren't making those queries back to an Aurora database.
What they're actually doing is they're making those queries
back to ElastiCache and ElastiCache is storing those queries
in there and it helps take off some of the performance
impact because you're not constantly querying with your main
production database for the same queries.
So you're going to cache your most-queried information
in ElastiCache.
ElastiCache supports two open source caching engines.
So we've got Memcached and Redis.
So what is the difference between a Memcached and Redis
and when should you use one over the other?
Well if you just want a really simple cache to offload
your database then you definitely want to use Memcached.
It's able to scale horizontally
and you get multithreaded performance.
If, however, you're going to need things like
advanced data types,
if you're going to need ranking and sorting datas,
if you're going to need Pub/Sub
so publishing and subscribing capabilities.
If you need multiple availability zones or persistence
or you need the ability to do Backup &amp; Restores
then you're going to use Redis.
So if you want Multi-AZ, Backups &amp; Restores
and its more sort of advanced data types
then you're going to use Redis.
If you just want something simple
and easy to get started with then you want Memcached.
So, on to my exam tips.
Just remember the main thing you need to really understand
going into the Certified Solutions Architect Associate exam
is the use case for ElastiCache.
So it's used to increase your database and web application
performance and common exam scenarios will be
"Hey, your database is overloaded.
"What two steps could you take to
"make this database perform better?"
One is to add a Read Replica
and then point your reads to your Read Replicas.
And then the other is to use ElastiCache.
At the Certified Solutions Architect Associate level
you're not really required to know the difference
between Memcached and Redis but you definitely
need to know it going
into the Certified Solutions Architect Professional exam.
Just remember that Redis is Multi-AZ
and you can do Backups &amp; Restores of Redis.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture
where were going to summarize everything we've learned
in the databases section and then that is it for databases.
So if you've got the time
please join me in the next lecture. Thank you.