Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at Amazon FSx for Windows
and Amazon FSx for Lustre.
So let's start with Amazon FSx for Windows File Server.
It basically provides a fully managed
native Microsoft Windows file system
so you can easily move your Windows-based applications
that require file storage to AWS.
And Amazon FSx is built on Windows Server.
So essentially it's a Windows file server
and that's really all it is
and it's really designed
for use with Microsoft applications,
so things like SQL Server, Active Directory,
IIS, SharePoint, et cetera.
So how is it different to EFS?
Well, Windows FSx is a managed Windows server
that runs Windows Server Message Block
so SMB-based file services.
It's designed for Windows applications like I just said
or designed for Microsoft applications
and it supports AD users, access control lists,
groups and security policies
along with Distributed File System namespaces,
DFS namespaces and replication.
So if you have an exam question that's asking you
what storage you should choose
and it's SMB based, Server Message Block based,
then you're gonna go for Windows FSx
because EFS is not SMB based.
EFS is a managed NAS filer for EC2 instances
and it's based on the Network File System Protocol.
NFS version 4.
So NFS version 4 for EFS.
And it was one of the first network file sharing protocols
native to Unix and Linux
and Amazon do not support EC2 instances
that are running Windows
to connect to EFS, it's Linux only.
So it's pretty simple.
When would you choose Windows FSx?
Is if you need SMB-based file services,
if you're running Microsoft applications.
You choose EFS if you are doing Linux
and you need shared storage.
And then we're moving onto Amazon FSx for Lustre.
This is a fully managed file system
that's optimized for computer-intensive workloads,
such as high-performance computing,
machine learning,
media and data processing of our workflows
and electronic design automation or EDA.
Now, with Amazon FSx,
you can launch and run Lustre file systems
that can process massive datasets,
up to hundreds of gigabytes per second of throughput,
millions of IOPS and sub-millisecond latencies.
So again, where you would choose this
is if you're doing exactly that.
If you're processing large datasets
with up to hundreds of gigabits per second
and you need that kind of throughput
or millions of IOPS or sub-millisecond latencies.
So think basically big data, machine learning,
high-performance computing, et cetera, et cetera.
That's when you'd use Amazon FSx for Lustre.
You'd use Amazon FSx for Windows
when you're using Windows applications
and if you just need shared storage for Linux,
you would use EFS.
So how is Lustre FSx different to EFS?
Well, it's specifically designed for processing workloads
such as machine learning,
high-performance compute, video processing,
financial modeling and electronic design automation.
And lets you launch and run a file system
that provides sub-millisecond access
to your data and allows you to read
and write data of speeds of up to hundreds
of gigabits per second of throughput
and millions of IOPS.
Whereas EFS, as like I said before,
is a managed NAS filer.
It's running the Network File System version 4 protocol
and it's one of the first network file sharing protocols
that was native to Unix and Linux.
So onto my exam tips.
In the exam, you're gonna be given a whole bunch
of different scenarios
and asked to choose whether you should be using EFS,
FSx for Windows and FSx for Lustre.
EFS, you use this
when you need distributed highly resilient storage for Linux
and instances in Linux-based applications.
Amazon FSx for Windows
is when you need centralized storage
for Windows-based applications
such as SharePoint, SQL Server,
workspaces, IIS web server
or any other native Microsoft application
and if you see the phrase SMB,
you need SMB storage,
then you're going to use Amazon FSx for Windows.
And then finally, if you're doing big data,
so you want to look at Amazon FSx for Lustre.
So this is when you need high speed,
high capacity distributed storage.
This'll be for applications
that do high performance compute,
financial modeling, et cetera.
Remember that that FSx for Lustre can store data directly
on S3 as well.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions,
please let me know, if not, feel free
to move on to the next lecture, thank you.